Added search suggestion spec (#1176)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-toolkit: specs/mgt-search-suggestion.md

> # mgt-search-suggestion

Reviewer: Wondering if this component could be called simply `mgt-search` or `mgt-search-box`? It functions like a search box that has suggestions.

Author: This component based on Search Suggestion API, suggestion result can be used for searching, so I guess mgt-suggestion
maybe better?

Author: let's use mgt-search

Author: Resolved

> The suggestion component based on Graph Suggestion API, it provides a input box and flyout. When a query string typed in the input box, the flyout will rendered by the data from Graph Suggestion API, show some suggestions. it supports 3 kinds of entity types, File/Text/Suggestions. The component structure as below

Reviewer: The support for 3 kinds of entities, is that based on a limitation from the API? Could it support custom entities?

Author: From the original design, 3 entity types were determined by our PM, so I will try extend it, make it support custom entities, thanks for it.

Reviewer 2: What does a suggestions entity look like? And what about people entities?

Author: It current now supports all entity types once the entity type supported by the Graph Suggestion API.
There is a document for Suggestion API in 1P, but still ongoing for Graph endpoint.

https://docs.substrate.microsoft.net/docs/Substrate-APIs-and-services/Substrate-Search-Service-(3S)/3S-API-Reference/Suggestions.html?uid=suggestions

| Display an icon indicating if it's a folder or file and the file type| P0 | Icons needed include generic folder icon, .docx, .pptx, .xlsx, and generic file icon for other file types |
| Display relevant details of the file | P0 | Developer should be able to configure what details are being rendered |
| Provide basic default key down action and mouse action | P0 | when mouse move to an item, the backgroud/cursor should change. when arrow up/down, one item should be selected|
| Provide callback function to get data for supporting users customization actions | P0 | when user click one item, should provide a way for getting the suggested data and support customize actions. when enter key pressed, should provide a way for getting the focused data and support customize actions|

## Templates

 `mgt-search-suggestion` supports several [templates](../customize-components/templates.md) that you can use to replace certain parts of the component. To specify a template, include a `<template>` element inside a component and set the `data-type` value to one of the following.

| Data type | Data context | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | default | null: no data | The template used to override the rendering of the entire component.

Reviewer: Based on the other pickers, I think we should avoid doing a `default` template since it's not really possible for developer to replace the entire picker with their own custom implementation.

Author: Agree

> | loading | null: no data | The template used to render the state of picker while request to graph is being made. |

Reviewer: We should be clear what part of the component is templated with the `loading` template. There are two I can think of
- the entire component when the component is initialized - this is only if the component needs to make any calls to graph before it can be used - not sure if super useful for a picker
- the contents of the suggestions dropdown, while it is searching - this seems more relevant as the user can replace a spinner with a custom progress indicator

Author: yeah, for this component, I don't think I need initialized the list, I will set a check, when user type something, there will have loading action. 
How do you think about it?

Reviewer: I think that makes

| error | null: no data | The template used if user search returns no users. |
| no-data | null: no data | An alternative template used if user search returns no users. |

> | search-suggestion-input | null: no data | The template to render search input box. |
> | search-suggestion-label-people | null: no data | The template to render people entity label. |
> | search-suggestion-label-text | null: no data | The template to render text entity label. |
> | search-suggestion-label-file | null: no data | The template to render file entity label. |
> | search-suggestion-people | suggestionPeople[]: The people suggestion details list | The template to render people entity. |
> | search-suggestion-text | suggestionText[]: The text suggestion details list | The template to render text entity. |
> | search-suggestion-file | suggestionFile[]: The file suggestion details list | The template to render file entity. |

Reviewer: Few suggestions to simplify template names
- Header seems more appropriate than label
- Remove `search` from data-type name
- simplify data context name for better developer experience

Also, I propose the `sugested-*` templates to be a template for a single entity and not a list

```suggestion
| input | null: no data | The template to render search input box. |
| suggested-people-header | null: no data | The template to render people entity label. |
| suggested-queries-header | null: no data | The template to render text entity label. |
| suggested-file-header | null: no data | The template to render file entity label. |
| suggested-person | person: A suggested person details | The template to render suggested person. |
| suggested-query | query: A string query suggestion | The template to render suggested query. |
| suggested-file | file: A suggested file details | The template to render suggested file. |
```

Author: yeah, let's use header. and I will try to template a single entity.

Author: Resolved current now

> The following examples shows how to use the `error` template.
> 
> ```html
> <mgt-search-suggestion>
>     <template data-type="search-suggestion-texts">
>         <div  data-for="text in texts">
>         {{text.text}}
>         </div>
>     </template>
> </mgt-search-suggestion>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples shows how to use the `suggested-query` template.

```html
<mgt-search-suggestion>
    <template data-type="suggested-query">
        <div>{{query}}</div>
    </template>
</mgt-search-suggestion>
```

Author: Thanks

Author: Resolved current now

```

## Proposed Solution

### Example 1: basic usage without any callback function
```<mgt-search-suggestion></mgt-search-suggestion>```

> ### Example 2: Developer provides a site-id and item-id

Reviewer: The title of this example doesn't seem to match the example

Author: hahahaha, I copied something from other spec, maybe I missed here!
thanks, will change here.

Author: Resolved

```
#User can get this component then bind callback action to this component 

function onClickCallback(suggestionValue) {
    console.log('suggestion value:', suggestionValue);
    var searchValue = getSuggestionValue(suggestionValue);
    window.location.assign('https://www.bing.com/search?q=' + searchValue);
}

function onEnterKeyPressCallback(originalValue, selectedSuggestionValue) {
    console.log('original value:', originalValue);
    console.log('suggestion value:', selectedSuggestionValue);
    var searchValue = getSuggestionValue(selectedSuggestionValue);
    window.location.assign('https://www.bing.com/search?q=' + searchValue);
}

function getSuggestionValue(suggestionValue) {
    var searchValue = '';
    if (suggestionValue.entity == 'File') {
        searchValue = suggestionValue.name;
    } else if (suggestionValue.entity == 'Text') {
        searchValue = suggestionValue.text;
    } else if (suggestionValue.entity == 'People') {
        searchValue = suggestionValue.displayName;
    }
    return searchValue;
}

var obj = document.getElementById('search-suggestion');
obj.onClickCallback = onClickCallback;

> obj.onEnterKeyPressCallback = onEnterKeyPressCallback;

Reviewer: I suggest using events instead of callbacks. Events are more flexible and follow the component model for events.

Ex:

```js
const handleSuggestionClicked = (e) => {
  const suggestion = e.detail;
  const searchValue = getSuggestionValue(suggestionValue);
  window.location.assign('https://www.bing.com/search?q=' + searchValue);
}

var searchBox= document.getElementById('search-suggestion');
searchBox.addEventListener('suggestionClick', handleSuggestionClicked);
searchBox.removeEventListener('suggestionClick', handleSuggestionClicked);
```

Please add a table for `Events`

Author: I will try, thanks

Author: Resolved, added two event, onEnterPress and onEntityClick

```

### Example 3: Developer can select entity types

```<mgt-search-suggestion selected-entity-types="file, text, people"></mgt-search-suggestion>```

```<mgt-search-suggestion selected-entity-types="file, people"></mgt-search-suggestion>```

```<mgt-search-suggestion selected-entity-types="people, text"></mgt-search-suggestion>```

## Example 4: Developer can set each entity type's suggestion count

```<mgt-search-suggestion max-text-suggestion-count="3" max-file-suggestion-count="2" max-people-suggestion-count="3"></mgt-search-suggestion>```

## Attributes and Properties

| Attribute | Property | Description |
| --------- | -------- | ----------- |

> | `max-text-suggestion-count` | `maxTextSuggestionCount` | The max suggestion count for text. |
> | `max-people-suggestion-count` | `maxPeopleSuggestionCount` | The max suggestion count for people. |
> | `max-file-suggestion-count` | `maxFileSuggestionCount` | The max suggestion count for file. |

Reviewer: Consider simplifying the property names:

```suggestion
| `max-query-suggestions` | `maxQuerySuggestions` | The max suggestion count for text. |
| `max-people-suggestions` | `maxPeopleSuggestions` | The max suggestion count for people. |
| `max-file-suggestions` | `maxFileSuggestions` | The max suggestion count for file. |
```

Author: I deleted them all, and the limitation merged into entity-types property

> | `selected-entity-types` | `selectedEntityTypes` | Suggestion entity types, free combination of text/people/file, use ',' to do the segmentation |

Reviewer: Would `suggested-entity-types` work better here?

```suggestion
| `selected-entity-types` | `selectedEntityTypes` | Suggestion entity types, free combination of text/people/file, use ',' to do the segmentation |
```

Author: I think they are same, select is an action for me, developer select some entity types from text/people/file.

Author: I made big  changes here, so for current now, the usage should like below.
(Suppose suggestion API support sample1 entity type)

 <mgt-search entity-types="query-2, file-3, people-1, sample1"></mgt-search>
The rendering order is:  query , file, people, sample1
The suggestion amount limitation is: 2, 3, 1, 3 ( 3 is default value )

Reviewer 2: Another possible option:

To show max 3 suggestions for each entity type:

 `<mgt-search entity-types="query, file, people" max-suggestions="3"></mgt-search>`

To set different max suggestion counts for each entity type:

 `<mgt-search entity-types="query, file, people" max-suggestions="2,3,1"></mgt-search>`

@nmetulev @beth-panx any input here?

Reviewer: I just had the same suggestion, I agree with @elisenyang - try to keep it simple at first

Author: sure, let's use max-suggestions="3"
